
.. _release_notes_1.5.0:

GraphingLib 1.5.0 Release Notes
===================================

Highlights
----------

- New :class:`Polygon` object to create any given shapes from vertices and supporting set operation methods


- New :class:`FitFromFOTF` object to fit using a first order transfer function


- You can now set a custom style as default to replace ``plain``


- Many new features for :class:`Curve`, :class:`Scatter` and :class:`Point` objects

New Features
------------

New function ``get_styles``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The new function ``get_styles`` makes it possible to fetch all available styles.

(`pr-420 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/420>`_)

Added possibility to plot the area between 2 curves
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The method ``get_area_between`` from the Curve class has a new parameter ``other_curve`` making it possible to get the area between two Curve objects.

(`pr-422 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/422>`_)

Added ``add_error_curves`` method
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Added ``add_error_curves`` method to the Curve class to display error around a curve with curves instead of error bars.

(`pr-426 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/426>`_)

New ``aspect_ratio`` parameter for Figure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The parameter ``aspect_ratio`` is used to specify an aspect ratio for the axis scaling. Can take a float, "auto" or "equal".

(`pr-428 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/428>`_)

Added absolute value functionality to Curve and Scatter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is possible to get the absolute value of a Curve or Scatter by passing a Curve or Scatter object to ``abs()``.

(`pr-432 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/432>`_)

Added object copying methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All Plottables now have a ``copy`` method to create a duplicate of the object.

(`pr-441 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/441>`_)

Added in-place operators for Curve and Scatter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Implemented in-place operators (``+=``, ``-=``, ``*=``, ``/=`` and ``**=``) for Curve and Scatter objects.

(`pr-442 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/442>`_)

Added ``FitFromFOTF`` (first order transfer function)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

New ``FitFromFOTF`` object to create fits using a first order transfer function.

(`pr-443 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/443>`_)

New Curve and Scatter slicing methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Curve and Scatter now have ``create_slice_x`` and ``create_slice_y`` methods to create a new object from a slice of an existing object.

(`pr-448 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/448>`_)

New ``Polygon`` object
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A new ``Polygon`` object to plot a general polygon from a list of vertices.

(`pr-450 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/450>`_)

Added possibility to set different default style
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Added two new functions, ``set_default_style`` to set your default style and ``get_default_style`` to get the name of the current default style.

(`pr-453 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/453>`_)

Getters and setters for every objects' properties
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All properties can now be set and retrieved using ``object.property`` notation.

(`pr-464 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/464>`_)

Manual legend placement and columns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Placement of the legend can now be controlled manually in Figures when using ``show`` and ``save``. A number of columns can also be specified.

(`pr-481 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/481>`_)

Added support for color maps with Scatter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Scatter has new parameters ``color_map`` and ``show_color_bar`` to specify a color map and display the color bar. To be used in combination with ``face_color`` to provide intensity values.


(`pr-503 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/503>`_)

Added support for color cycles and colormaps with Scatter edge_color
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The `edge_color` attribute of Scatter objects now accepts a list of colors or intensities. When set to "color cycle" or if this is what the style's default is set to, the edge_color will cycle through the colors in the style's color cycle.

(`pr-537 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/537>`_)

DPI resolution now supported
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

DPI resolution is now available as a style controlled parameter and can be overridden in the Figure and MultiFigure save methods.

(`pr-559 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/559>`_)

More flexibility for Point colors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Point face and edge colors can now be set to a color or None (transparent). Text color can also be set to a color or to "same as point" (the default) to match the point color, with the edge color being prioritized over the face color if both aren't None.

(`pr-561 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/561>`_)

Other Changes
-------------

Use trapezoidal integration for ``create_integral_curve``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Changed the method used for numerical integration of curves to work with uneavenly spaced data and added a parameter ``initial_value``.

(`pr-433 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/433>`_)

Simplified ``VectorField`` options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Options for ``VectorField`` arrows have been simplified and the arrows shape is now controlled only by ``arrow_width`` and ``arrow_head_size``.

(`pr-476 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/476>`_)

Contributors
------------

A total of 3 people contributed to this release.

* `@Oddball777 <https://github.com/Oddball777>`_

* `@yalap13 <https://github.com/yalap13>`_

* `@mamar828 <https://github.com/mamar828>`_

Merged Pull Requests
--------------------

A total of 19 pull requests were merged for this release.

* `#420 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/420>`_ : Added get_styles function

* `#422 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/422>`_ : Added possiblity to plot area between 2 curves in get_area_between

* `#426 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/426>`_ : Added add_error_curves method and default params

* `#428 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/428>`_ : Added aspect_ratio to Figure init

* `#432 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/432>`_ : Add absolute value functionality to Curve and Scatter classes

* `#433 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/433>`_ : Add cumulative trapezoidal integration for creating integral curves

* `#441 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/441>`_ : Added object copying methods

* `#442 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/442>`_ : Added in place operators for Curves and Scatters

* `#443 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/443>`_ : Added FitFrom FOTF (first order transfer function)

* `#448 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/448>`_ : 406 feature request curve slicing new curve from part of existing curve

* `#450 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/450>`_ : 437 feature request implement arbitrary polygons

* `#453 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/453>`_ : 452 feature request possibility to set different default style

* `#464 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/464>`_ : 462 feature request use properties with getters and setters

* `#476 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/476>`_ : 468 feature request reduce vector field options to be more similar to arrow

* `#481 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/481>`_ : Added option for manual legend placement and columns

* `#503 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/503>`_ : Added support for colour maps with Scatters

* `#537 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/537>`_ : Curve fix fill between color cycle, Scatter flexibility

* `#559 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/559>`_ : 558 feature request set dpi when saving

* `#561 <https://github.com/GraphingLib/GraphingLib/pull/561>`_ : Added flexibility to Point class text color

